 Contracting Provider agrees to arrive at each appointment 15 minutes prior to the scheduled 
appointment. If Contracting Provider is running late, or can’t make the appointment, 
Contracting Provider must notify ProCare immediately. Upon arrival at the facility, 
Contracting Provider must identify himself/herself as the ProCare interpreter assigned to the 
injured worker to the injured worker, physician and/or case manager. 
4) Contracting Provider agrees to contact ProCare immediately if the injured worker does not 
arrive within 15 minutes of the scheduled appointment, or if the scheduled appointment will 
require a prolonged wait time (longer than 30 minutes). 
5) Contracting Provider agrees to maintain objectivity and impartiality during all assignments. 
Contracting Provider must communicate in a thorough and precise manner. Contracting 
Provider may only ask questions of the physician, case manager, therapist, etc., that are 
posed by the injured worker or one of the above. 
6) Contracting Provider’s appearance must be professional at all times, i.e., collared 
shirt/blouse, slacks or skirt, and dress shoes. (No sneakers, sandals, jeans, shorts, T-shirts, 
etc. allowed.) Contracting Provider’s clothes must be clean and pressed.  
7) Contracting Provider agrees to notify ProCare immediately of any incident involving an 
injured worker. 
8) Contracting Provider agrees to cooperate and participate with and in, and be bound by, 
ProCare’s policy and procedures, quality assurance, record keeping, audit and grievance 
procedures. 
INTERPRETATION PROVIDER AGREEMENT v4-2024    PAGE 2                 _______ Initial                                                                                                 
9) Contracting Provider shall not contact, solicit or seek payment from injured workers or 
ProCare Clients (i.e., claimant’s case manager and/or adjuster). Rates and/or payment shall 
only be discussed with ProCare. 
10) Contracting Provider’s staff or agents shall not at any time discuss financial or legal matters 
or advise injured worker to seek the services of an attorney or medical provider or to provide 
the name and/or telephone number of such Service Providers. 
11) Contracting Provider agrees to accept injured worker without discrimination based upon age, 
sex, race, color, religion, national origin, or the medical nature of the illness involved. 
12) Names, addresses, phone numbers, etc., of claimants serviced by Contracting Provider on 
behalf of ProCare are the property of ProCare and shall not be distributed for any purpose. 
13) Contracting Provider shall not solicit or entice injured workers with any incentives, discounts 
or gifts in order to maintain or increase patronage, or to encourage a  ProCare injured worker 
to select or request service by a Provider other than ProCare. 
5. INTERPRETER STANDARDS 
A. Contracting Provider agrees that all of its interpreters will meet and maintain the following 
Interpreter Standards: 
1) Be fluent in English and the target language. 
2) Be able to interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially. 
3) Be able to understand and present information of a medical nature.  
4) Be professional in their dress and behavior, and act professionally with any and all parties 
they come into contact with during an assignment. 
5) Adhere to the standard code of ethics for interpreters in health care. 
6) Accreditation by a recognized interpretation entity or completion of a recognized medical 
interpreter course is preferred. 
7) Bachelor’s Degree is preferred. 
8) A minimum of 2 years’ experience in medical interpretation is preferred. 
B. Contracting Provider agrees to monitor its interpreters to ensure their compliance with the 
Interpreter Standards. Contracting Provider agrees to permanently remove any interpreters found 
to be in violation of the Interpreter Standards from its interpreter roster to ensure that interpreter 
is not utilized for ProCare. 
INTERPRETATION PROVIDER AGREEMENT v4-2024    PAGE 3                 _______ Initial                                                                                                 
C. Contracting Provider agrees to maintain a zero-tolerance drug and alcohol policy with its 
interpreters. Contracting Provider agrees to permanently remove any interpreter found to be in 
violation of the drug and alcohol policy from its interpreter roster to ensure that interpreter is not 
utilized for ProCare. Contracting Provider also agrees to notify ProCare promptly of any drug- or 
alcohol-related incidents or complaints involving its interpreters and ProCare claimants.  
D. Contracting Provider understands that failure on its part to ensure its interpreters are meeting 
and maintaining the Interpreter Standards may result in the Contracting Provider’s suspension or 
termination from ProCare’s provider network. 
6. REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
A. It is the sole responsibility of the Contracting Provider to be informed of and to comply 
with any and all Federal, State, County, or Local Laws, statutes and ordinances which regulate 
or oversee the Contracting Provider’s business segment. 
B. Contracting Provider shall notify ProCare within one (1) business day of notification of lack 
of compliance by any regulatory body.